== 2.7.2
See https://github.com/ctran/annotate_models/releases/tag/v2.7.2

== 2.7.1
See https://github.com/ctran/annotate_models/releases/tag/v2.7.1

== 2.7.0
See https://github.com/ctran/annotate_models/releases/tag/v2.7.0

== 2.6.9
* Support foreigh key (#241)
* Check if model has skip tag in annotate_model_file (#167)
* Fix issue where serializer-related flags weren't being honored (#246)
* Prefer SQL column type over normalized AR type (#231)

== 2.6.8
* Nothing annotated unless options[:model_dir] is specified, #234

== 2.6.7
* Nothing annotated unless options[:model_dir] is specified, #234

== 2.6.6
* Makes it possible to wrap annotations, #225
* Fix single model generation, #214
* Fix default value for Rails 4.2, #212
* Don't crash on inherited models in subdirectories, #232
* Process model_dir in rake task, #197

== 2.6.4
* Skip "models/concerns", #194
* Fix #173 where annotate says "Nothing to annotate" in rails 4.2
* Display an error message if not run from the root of the project, #186
* Support rails 4.0 new default test directory, #182
* Add an option to show timestamp in routes "-timestamp", #136
* Skip plain ruby objects if they have the same class name as an ActiveRecord object, #121

== 2.6.3
* Fix bug of annotate position in routes (#158)

== 2.6.2
* Retain the current annotate block unless --force is specified
* Always load models, since they may not be autoloaded by Rails
* The pg array type is now detected (see #158)

== 2.6.0.beta2

* support for composite_primary_keys (garysweaver)
* bug fix for annotate_one_file (vlado)

== 2.6.0.beta1

* It's now possible to use Annotate in standalone ActiveRecord (non-Rails)
  projects again.
* Adding note that Markdown is actually MultiMarkdown, and recommending the use
  of the `kramdown` engine for parsing it.
* Improved Markdown formatting considerably.
* Bugfix: Needed to use inline-code tag for column and table names, otherwise
  underscores would cause havok with the formatting.
* Bugfix: Markdown syntax was incorrect (can't have trailing spaces before the
  closing marker for an emphasis tag).
* Bugfix: Remove-annotations wasn't properly finding test/spec files, and
  wasn't even looking for FactoryGirl factories under the new naming
  convention.
* Bugfix: Load the Rakefile from the current directory, not the first Rakefile
  in our load path.
* Added support for new FactoryGirl naming convention.
* Fix behavior of route annotations in newer versions of Rake that don't spit
  out the CWD as their first line of output.
* Overhauled integration testing system to be much easier to work with, better
  compartmentalized, and so forth -- at the cost that you must be using RVM to
  utilize it.  (It'll spit out appropriate pending messages if you don't.)
  Also includes a mode for "tinkering" by hand with a scenario, and won't let
  you run it through rspect if the repo is in a dirty state.  Added appropriate
  rake tasks to help with all of this.
* Routes can now be appended, pre-pended, or removed -- and do sane things in
  all cases.
* Expose all `position_*` variables as CLI params.
* Make `ENV ['position']` work as a default for all the `ENV ['position_*']`
  variables.
* Make rake tasks more resilient to unusual circumstances / code loading
  behavior.
* Resolve annotate vs. annotate_models ambiguity once and for all by settling
  on `annotate_models` _and_ `annotate_routes`.  This avoids a name collision
  with RMagick while not needlessly overloading the term.
* Fixed that schema kept prepending additional newlines
* Updates to make annotate smarter about when to touch a model
* Recognize column+type, and don't change a file unless the column+type
  combination of the new schema are different than that of the old (i.e., don't
  regenerate if columns happen to be in a different order. That's just how life
  is sometimes)
* Change annotate to use options hash instead of ENV.

== 2.5.0

* Works better with Rails 3
* Bugfix: schema kept prepending additional newlines
* Updates to make annotate smarter about when to touch a model
* Recognize column+type, and don't change a file unless the column+type combination of the new schema are different than that of the old (i.e., don't regenerate if columns happen to be in a different order. That's just how life is sometimes.)
* Grab old specification even if it has \r\n as line endings rather than pure \ns
* Various warning and specification fixes
* Fix "no such file to load -- annotate/annotate_models (MissingSourceFile)"
  error (require statements in tasks now use full path to lib files)
* warn about macros, to mitigate when we're included during a production run,
  not just a rakefile run -- possibly at the expense of too much noise
* Adding rake as a runtime dependency
* If the schema is already in the model file, it will be replaced into the same
  location.  If it didn't previously exist, it'll be placed according to the
  "position", as before.
* Allow task loading from Rakefile for gems (plugin installation already
  auto-detects).
* Add skip_on_db_migrate option as well for people that don't want it
* Fix options parsing to convert strings to proper booleans
* Add support for Fabrication fabricators
* Leave magic encoding comment intact
* Fix issue #14 - RuntimeError: Already memoized
* Count a model as 'annotated' if any of its tests/fixtures are annotated
* Support FactoryGirl
* Support :change migrations (Rails 3.1)
* Allow models with non-standard capitalization
* Widen type column so we can handle longtexts with chopping things off.
* Skip trying to get list of models from commandline when running via Rake (was
  preventing the use of multiple rake tasks in one command if one of them was
  db:migrate).
* Add ability to skip annotations for a model by adding
  '# -*- SkipSchemaAnnotations' anywhere in the file.
* Don't show column limits for integer and boolean types.
* Add sorting for columns and indexes. (Helpful for out-of-order migration
  execution.  Use --sort if you want this.)
* Annotate unit tests in subfolders.
* Add generator to install rakefile that automatically annotates on db:migrate.
* Correct Gemfile to clarify which environments need which gems.
* Add an .rvmrc to facilitate clean development.
* Refactor out ActiveRecord monkey-patch to permit extending without
  side-effects.
* Use ObjectSpace to locate models to facilitate handling of models with
  non-standard capitalization.
  Note that this still requires that the inflector be configured to understand
  the special case.
* Shore up test cases a bit.
* Merge against many of the older branches on Github whose functionality is
  already reflected to reduce confusion about what is and is not implemented
  here.
* Accept String or Symbol for :position (et al) options.
* Add RDoc output formatting as an option.
* Add Markdown output formatting as an option.
* Add option to force annotation regeneration.
* Add new configuration option for controlling where info is placed in
  fixtures/factories.
* Fix for models without tables.
* Fix gemspec generation now that Jeweler looks at Gemfile.
* Fix warning: `NOTE: Gem::Specification#default_executable= is deprecated with
  no replacement. It will be removed on or after 2011-10-01.`
* Fix handling of files with no trailing newline when putting annotations at
  the end of the file.
* Now works on tables with no primary key.
* --format=markdown option
* --trace option to help debug "Unable to annotate" errors
* "Table name" annotation (if table name is different from model name)
* "Human name" annotation (enabling translation to non-English locales)
* Fix JRuby ObjectSpace compatibility bug (https://github.com/ctran/annotate_models/pull/85)
* Fix FactoryGirl compatibility bug (https://github.com/ctran/annotate_models/pull/82)

== 2.4.2 2009-11-21

* Annotates (spec|test)/factories/<model>_factory.rb files

== 2.4.1 2009-11-20

* Annotates thoughtbot's factory_girl factories (test/factories/<model>_factory.rb)
* Move default annotation position back to top

== 2.4.0 2009-12-13

* Incorporated lots of patches from the Github community, including support for
  Blueprints fixtures
* Several bug fixes

== 2.1 2009-10-18

* New options
  * -R to require additional files before loading the models
  * -i to show database indexes in annotations
  * -e to exclude annotating tests or fixtures
  * -m to include the migration version number in the annotation
  * --model-dir to annotate model files stored a different place than app/models
* Ignore unknown macros ('acts_as_whatever')

== 2.0 2009-02-03

* Add annotate_models plugin fork additions
  * Annotates Rspec and Test Unit models
  * Annotates Object Daddy exemplars
  * Annotates geometrical columns
* Add AnnotateRoutes rake task
* Up gem structure to newgem defaults

== 1.0.4 2008-09-04

* Only update modified models since last run, thanks to sant0sk1

== 1.0.3 2008-05-02

* Add misc changes from Dustin Sallings and Henrik N
  * Remove trailing whitespace
  * More intuitive info messages
  * Update README file with update-to-date example

== 1.0.2 2008-03-22

* Add contributions from Michael Bumann (http://github.com/bumi)
  * added an option "position" to choose to put the annotation,
  * spec/fixtures now also get annotated
  * added a task to remove the annotations
  * these options can be specified from command line as -d and -p [before|after]
