== Annotate (aka AnnotateModels)

IMPORTANT:  If you're upgrading from a previous version, including 2.5.0,
re-run the generator task!

Add a comment summarizing the current schema to the top or bottom of each of
your...

- ActiveRecord models
- Fixture files
- Tests and Specs
- Object Daddy exemplars
- Machinist blueprints
- Fabrication fabricators
- Thoughtbot's factory_girl factories, i.e. the (spec|test)/factories/<model>_factory.rb files
- routes.rb file (for Rails projects)

The schema comment looks like this:

   # == Schema Info
   #
   # Table name: line_items
   #
   #  id                  :integer(11)    not null, primary key
   #  quantity            :integer(11)    not null
   #  product_id          :integer(11)    not null
   #  unit_price          :float
   #  order_id            :integer(11)
   #

    class LineItem < ActiveRecord::Base
      belongs_to :product
     . . .

It also annotates geometrical columns, geom type and srid, when using
`SpatialAdapter` or `PostgisAdapter`:

   # == Schema Info
   #
   # Table name: trips
   #
   #  local           :geometry        point, 4326
   #  path            :geometry        line_string, 4326

Also, if you pass the -r option, it'll annotate routes.rb with the output of
`rake routes`.


== Install

Into Gemfile from rubygems.org:

    gem 'annotate', ">=2.5.0"

Into Gemfile from Github:

    gem 'annotate', :git => 'git://github.com/ctran/annotate_models.git'

Into environment gems from rubygems.org:

    gem install annotate

Into environment gems from Github checkout:

    git clone git://github.com/ctran/annotate_models.git annotate_models
    cd annotate_models
    rake build
    gem install pkg/annotate-*.gem


== Usage

(If you used the Gemfile install, prefix the below commands with `bundle exec`.)

=== Usage in Rails

To annotate all your models, tests, fixtures, and factories:

    cd /path/to/app
    annotate

To annotate just your models, tests, and factories:

    annotate --exclude fixtures

To annotate just your models:

    annotate --exclude tests,fixtures,factories

To annotate routes.rb:

    annotate --routes

To remove model/test/fixture/factory annotations:

    annotate --delete

To remove routes.rb annotations:

    annotate --routes --delete


== Configuration


=== Usage Outside of Rails

Everything above applies, except that --routes is not meaningful, and you will
probably need to explicitly set one or more `--require` option(s), and/or one
or more `--model-dir` options to inform annotate about the structure of your
project and help it bootstrap and load the relevant code.



== Configuration

If you want to always skip annotations on a particular model, add this string
anywhere in the file:

    # -*- SkipSchemaAnnotations

=== Configuration in Rails

To generate a configuration file (in the form of a `.rake` file), to set
default options:

    rails g annotate_models:install

Edit this file to control things like output format, where annotations are
added (top or bottom of file), and in which artifacts.
== Rails Integration

By default, once you've generated a configuration file, annotate will be
executed whenever you run `rake db:migrate` (but only in development mode).
If you want to disable this behavior permanently, edit the `.rake` file and
change:

    'skip_on_db_migrate'   => "false",

To:

    'skip_on_db_migrate'   => "try",

If you want to run `rake db:migrate` as a one-off without running annotate,
you can do so with a simple environment variable, instead of editing the
`.rake` file:

    skip_on_db_migrate=1 rake db:migrate


== Options

    Usage: annotate [options] [model_file]*
        -d, --delete                     Remove annotations from all model files or the routes.rb file
        -p, --position [before|after]    Place the annotations at the top (before) or the bottom (after) of the model/test/fixture/factory/routes file(s)
            --pc, --position-in-class [before|after]
                                         Place the annotations at the top (before) or the bottom (after) of the model file
            --pf, --position-in-factory [before|after]
                                         Place the annotations at the top (before) or the bottom (after) of any factory files
            --px, --position-in-fixture [before|after]
                                         Place the annotations at the top (before) or the bottom (after) of any fixture files
            --pt, --position-in-test [before|after]
                                         Place the annotations at the top (before) or the bottom (after) of any test files
            --pr, --position-in-routes [before|after]
                                         Place the annotations at the top (before) or the bottom (after) of the routes.rb file
        -r, --routes                     Annotate routes.rb with the output of 'rake routes'
        -v, --version                    Show the current version of this gem
        -m, --show-migration             Include the migration version number in the annotation
        -i, --show-indexes               List the table's database indexes in the annotation
        -s, --simple-indexes             Concat the column's related indexes in the annotation
            --model-dir dir              Annotate model files stored in dir rather than app/models
            --ignore-model-subdirects    Ignore subdirectories of the models directory
            --sort                       Sort columns alphabetically, rather than in creation order
        -R, --require path               Additional file to require before loading models, may be used multiple times
        -e [tests,fixtures,factories],   Do not annotate fixtures, test files, and/or factories
            --exclude
        -f [bare|rdoc|markdown],         Render Schema Infomation as plain/RDoc/Markdown
            --format
            --force                      Force new annotations even if there are no changes.
            --trace                      If unable to annotate a file, print the full stack trace, not just the exception message.


== Sorting

By default, columns will be sorted in database order (i.e. the order in which
migrations were run).

If you prefer to sort alphabetically so that the results of
annotation are consistent regardless of what order migrations are executed in,
use  --sort.


== Markdown

The format produced is actually MultiMarkdown, making use of the syntax
extension for tables.  It's recommended you use `kramdown` as your parser if
you want to use this format.  If you're using `yard` to generate documentation,
specify a format of markdown with `kramdown` as the provider by adding this to
your `.yardopts` file:

    --markup markdown
    --markup-provider kramdown

Be sure to add this to your `Gemfile` as well:

    gem 'kramdown', :groups => [:development], :require => false


== WARNING

Note that this code will blow away the initial/final comment block in your
models if it looks like it was previously added by this gem, so you don't want
to add additional text to an automatically created comment block.

BACK UP YOUR MODELS BEFORE USING THIS TOOL!


== Links

- Factory Girl: http://github.com/thoughtbot/factory_girl
- Object Daddy: http://github.com/flogic/object_daddy
- Machinist: http://github.com/notahat/machinist
- Fabrication: http://github.com/paulelliott/fabrication
- SpatialAdapter: http://github.com/pdeffendol/spatial_adapter
- PostgisAdapter: http://github.com/nofxx/postgis_adapter


== License

Released under the same license as Ruby. No Support. No Warranty.


== Authors

- Original code by: Dave Thomas -- Pragmatic Programmers, LLC <http://agilewebdevelopment.com/plugins/annotate_models>
- Overhauled by: Alex Chaffee <http://alexch.github.com> alex@stinky.com
- Gemmed by: Cuong Tran <http://github.com/ctran> ctran@pragmaquest.com
- Maintained by: Alex Chaffee and Cuong Tran
- Homepage: http://github.com/ctran/annotate_models

With help from:

- Jack Danger - http://github.com/JackDanger
- Michael Bumann - http://github.com/bumi
- Henrik Nyh - http://github.com/henrik
- Marcos Piccinini - http://github.com/nofxx
- Neal Clark - http://github.com/nclark
- Jacqui Maher - http://github.com/jacqui
- Nick Plante - http://github.com/zapnap - http://blog.zerosum.org
- Pedro Visintin - http://github.com/peterpunk - http://www.pedrovisintin.com
- Bob Potter - http://github.com/bpot
- Gavin Montague - http://github.com/govan
- Alexander Semyonov - http://github.com/rotuka
- Nathan Brazil - http://github.com/bitaxis
- Ian Duggan http://github.com/ijcd
- Jon Frisby http://github.com/mrjoy
- Tsutomu Kuroda
- Kevin Moore
- Philip Hallstrom
- Brent Greeff
- Paul Alexander
- Dmitry Lihachev
- qichunren

and many others that I may have forgotten to add.
